After installation add path

then two ways to start: First Way: Both command line will work on git bash.

1. mongod -> to start mondo database and
2. mongo -> to run shell to write queries

Second way: Direct run mongo.exe file.

Some Terma: Collection: Like Tablr Document: Like record(a complete row) Field:
Columns

Commands: No need ro use semi-collon (';')

1. show dbs //to databases
2. use <databasw name> //to create new database(like schema) or to use existing
   one

## to create collections, no command to create collectiona but when we insert a record then we assume that collections is already created

3. db.<collection name>.insertOne({name:"Sachin", age:21, married:false})
   //above command will create a new collections if not exists already and will
   insert a record in it

4. db //to check the current databasw that is being used

5. show collections //to see collections

6. db.<collection name>.find() //to find all documents
7. db.<collection name>.find().pretty() //to show in user readable format
8. db.<collection name>.find().limit(5) //to show only 5 records
   db.<collection name>.find({name:"Sachin"}) //query based find

   <!-- to show only some fields -->

   db.<collection name>.find({name:"Sachin}, {\_id:0, name:1}) //\_id: 0 -> 0 to
   hide, 1 to show

   <!-- to find only single record -->

   db.<collection name>.findOne({name: "Sachin"})

   <!-- select records after skipping some records -->

   db.<collection name>.find({name: "Sachin"}).skip(4) //it will skip first 4
   records

## insert documents

8. db.<collection name>.insertOne({name: "Sachin", age: 12, isMarried: true})

## insert many

9. db.<collection name>.insertMany([{name: "sachin", age:12}, {name:"Pradeep",
   age:34}, <....>])

<!-- update queries -->

db.<collection name>.updateOne({name:"Mayank"}, {$set:{age:10}})    //$set
operator replace the value of a //field with the specified value

<!-- to update more than one document  -->

db.<collection name>.updateMany({name: "Mayank"}, {$set:{age:10}})

<!-- Delete -->

db.<collection name>.deleteOne({name: "Mayank"})
db.<collection name>.dleteMany({name: "Mayank"})
db.<collection name>.deleteMany({}) //to delete every records

//compas software is used as GUI to handle mongodb database // we can install it
if we don't want to manage mongodb using commandline // we can also use Robo 3T
software as well
